docs(kraft): kraft-based upgrade and downgrade instructions (#9435)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/upgrading/proc-downgrade-kafka-kraft.adoc

Reviewer: I left some comments here. But I think this needs to be written bit differently. Either as two separate main steps:
1. Downgrade the metadata version to use metadata version supported by the KAfka version you want to downgrade to
2. Downgrade the Kafka version

Or alternatively:
* Have as a clear prerequisite that the metadata version needs to be already set to version supported by the Kafka version we are downgrading to.

RIght now, you seem to cover both options in what sounds like a single step (single edit to the Kafka CR) and that does not work for downgrades. This is the same for ZooKeeper-based downgrade. But there it seems to be clearer that the inter.broker.protocol.version has to be changed before.

Author: I've tried to make it clearer in both procedures by introducing a separate step to update the metadata version or protocol version before the Kafka version.

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-downgrade.adoc

[id='proc-downgrade-kafka-kraft-{context}']
= Downgrading KRaft-based Kafka clusters and client applications

[role="_abstract"]
Downgrade a KRaft-based Strimzi Kafka cluster to an earlier version.

> When downgrading a KRaft-based Strimzi Kafka cluster to a lower version, like moving from {KafkaVersionHigher} to {KafkaVersionLower}, ensure that the `spec.kafka.metadataVersion` property in the Kafka configuration aligns with a version supported by the specified Kafka version (`spec.kafka.version`). 

Reviewer: I would write this more generic -> this is not about what is set in the custom resource but what the cluster actually uses. For example, if you change the `.spec.kafka.metadataVerison` to `3.5`, but the Kafka cluster does not accept it, the downgrade still cannot be done.

```suggestion
When downgrading a KRaft-based Strimzi Kafka cluster to a lower version, like moving from {KafkaVersionHigher} to {KafkaVersionLower}, ensure that the metadata version used by the Kafka cluster is a version supported by the Kafka version you want to downgrade to. 
```

The metadata version for the Kafka version you are downgrading from must not be higher than the version you are downgrading to.

NOTE: Consult the Apache Kafka documentation for information regarding the support and limitations associated with KRaft-based downgrades.

.Prerequisites

* The Cluster Operator is up and running.
* Before you downgrade the Strimzi Kafka cluster, check the following for the `Kafka` resource:

> ** `Kafka.spec.kafka.config` does not contain options that are not supported by the Kafka version being downgraded to.
> ** `Kafka.spec.kafka.config` has a `spec.kafka.metadataVersion` that is supported by the Kafka version being downgraded to.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `Kafka` custom resource does not contain options that are not supported by the Kafka version being downgraded to.
** `spec.kafka.metadataVersion` is set to a version that is supported by the Kafka version being downgraded to.   
```

spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 3
    metadataVersion: {KafkaMetadataVersionLower} # <1>
    version: {KafkaVersionLower} # <2>
    # ...
----
+
<1> Metadata version is supported by the Kafka version.
<2> Kafka version is changed to the new version.
+
NOTE: The value of `metadataVersion` must be a string to prevent it from being interpreted as a floating point number.

. If the image for the Kafka version is different from the image defined in `STRIMZI_KAFKA_IMAGES` for the Cluster Operator, update `Kafka.spec.kafka.image`.
+
See xref:con-versions-and-images-str[]

. Save and exit the editor, then wait for rolling updates to complete.
+
Check the update in the logs or by watching the pod state transitions:
+
[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
----
kubectl logs -f _CLUSTER-OPERATOR-POD-NAME_ | grep -E "Kafka version downgrade from [0-9.]+ to [0-9.]+, phase ([0-9]+) of \1 completed"
----
+
[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
----
kubectl get pod -w
----
+
Check the Cluster Operator logs for an `INFO` level message:
+
[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
----
Reconciliation #_NUM_(watch) Kafka(_NAMESPACE_/_NAME_): Kafka version downgrade from _FROM-VERSION_ to _TO-VERSION_, phase 1 of 1 completed

> ----

Author: Maybe we prefer to say check resource status here like upgrades

Reviewer: I wonder if these messages are still logged. I cannot find in the code.

Author: I removed all this and pointed to the resource status section.

** The `Kafka` custom resource does not contain options that are not supported by the Kafka version being downgraded to.
** `spec.kafka.metadataVersion` is set to a version that is supported by the Kafka version being downgraded to.   

.Procedure

. Update the Kafka cluster configuration.
+
[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
kubectl edit kafka <kafka_configuration_file>

. Change the `metadataVersion` version to a version supported by the Kafka version you are downgrading to; leave the `Kafka.spec.kafka.version` unchanged at the _current_ Kafka version.
+
For example, if downgrading from Kafka {KafkaVersionHigher} to {KafkaVersionLower}:
+
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 3
    metadataVersion: {KafkaMetadataVersionLower} # <1>
    version: {KafkaVersionHigher} # <2>
    # ...
----
+
<1> Metadata version is changed to a version supported by the earlier Kafka version.
<2> Kafka version is unchanged.
+
NOTE: The value of `metadataVersion` must be a string to prevent it from being interpreted as a floating point number.

> . Save the change, then wait for rolling updates to complete.

Reviewer: This will not have rolling update. But the `.status.kafkaMetadataVersion` would be updated by the operator once/if the metadata version is changed.

Author: Updated.
I also updated the section on _Checking the status of an upgrade_ so that we now show kafkaMetadataVersion too.
